---
layout: post
title: "What is Augmented Awareness?"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---


There are many practices and techniques that can help to understand ourselves, like *mindful meditation* or *journaling*.  It is right when you are exhausted or you are not paying attention that you need awareness the most. Sometimes, we need an external aid. Family and friends have this role; but during lockdowns, one must get creative.

<!--more-->
I am building a system to better decipher what are the subtle influences on my own behavior.

I believe this is an increasingly important topic as **internet of behavior** and **internet of bodies** gain traction and influence on our lives.

## Analysis
A lot of *quantified self* projects end up focusing too much on data collection and too little on what is next.

All the data will be gathered in a single, easily accessible, rich data store. Manual and automatic data analysis will be a primary objective.

I want to be able to mark explicit interventions and natural experiments and analyze their effect. A population of one severely limit my finding. I will need to be creative and humble.

I am lucky to have a few people with medical backgrounds among family and friends. I can ask for advice and help. I will also schedule quarterly check-ups with my family doctor, for an additional perspective and data.

## Data

The data will come from different sources:
- **smart trackers**
- **air quality** at home
- **weather** data
- **self-reported physical and mental state**, via a daily journaling app
-  **sousveillance** to automatically estimate physical or mental state
- **device usage**, tracked directly or via network activity
- **content and media consumption**

All of these data, and their fusion, is sensitive. It must remain within my own network as much as possible. I will also consider what is the right level of encryption and retention, in case of a hacker breach.